---
title: "re-defining productive time"
description: "the nuances of wasting time and using it well"
date: "2017-12-07"
draft: false

---
## re-defining productive time 

Society trains us to be extremely results-focused beings. We are constantly looking for ways to optimize our time, increase efficiency, maximize productivity and output the best results we can in the least amount of time. However, by being so focused on the results we put out, it is easy to lose sight of some of the most valuable and enriching aspects of life.
I think most of us may be guilty of looking back at the end of a day and saying “I wasn’t that productive today” or “I didn’t get enough work done” or “I wasted so much time.” So frequently, we measure the success of our day by the amount of hours we spend isolated, with our nose buried in books, in a state of complete immersion in the material we are learning. Though days like this can be extremely rewarding and satisfying, it is simply unrealistic to expect ourselves to be at max productivity level every day. Despite this fact, we so often still put pressure on ourselves to increase output and become stressed and disappointed when we do not accomplish everything we wanted to.
While I place a lot of value on my work level and get frustrated when I know I am distracted with futile things, I have come to realize that sometimes the time we spend away from our work can be the most important and valuable time we spend all day. For example, if you are studying with someone and you somehow fall into a deeply stimulating intellectual conversation, stemming from something as unexpected as a math proof, a confusing concept, or something that is weighing on one of you which sparks an unexpected conversation, it is okay to take your foot off the gas for a second and allow this organic moment to sprout into what it is trying to become.
 
Recently, some of the best conversations I have had with people have completely replaced time I could have spent working, “increasing productivity” and maximizing my output. However, although my past self might have ended the conversation and kindly reminded the person this was my “work time” and I needed to focus, I let the conversations grow and evolve and watched as the armour people use to shield themselves from vulnerability and authenticity fell away, allowing my friends to open up to me and strengthen our relationship.
There is obviously a need for balance when talking about these moments, as if you go to the library to discuss your weekend’s events or why the sky is blue for eight hours straight with someone when you have a midterm and three assignments due the next day, it might be time to back off and accept the blue sky for a few hours while you grind some work. However, if you are in a situation where you both have the itch to get something off your chest or you find a new common ground you are eager to discuss, let it happen! Let the conversation flow, the relationship grow and your vulnerabilities show! (Couldn’t resist the third-grade-level rhyme). In all seriousness though, sometimes letting these experiences and conversations happen can be way more valuable and “productive” in the grand scheme of things than another practice midterm when your brain is already fried at 12 am in the library.
This post was sparked by a quote:
IN FIVE YEARS, YOU WILL BE THE SAME PERSON YOU ARE TODAY EXCEPT FOR THE PEOPLE YOU MEET AND THE BOOKS YOU READ.
I agree with this, however I think I would add that the conversations you have shape you into the person you become as well. By engaging with other people and gaining a vast scope of perspectives and opinions, you see things in new ways, come to new realizations and grow as a person.
 
 
Moral of the story: Working hard is imperative for success, but without social interaction and intellectual stimulation to partner our productivity, it is easy to burn out and find ourselves unhappy. Ultimately, sometimes we need to ease up on our obsession with output and instead of isolating ourselves, let a conversation happen if it’s fighting to come out of its cage. Oftentimes, letting that conversation happen can open a whole new set of doors into something you may not have ever expected, and sculpt a seemingly surface level relationship into a deeper, lasting mental connection linking you to someone indefinitely. Additionally, allowing our minds to release whatever we are holding onto often allows us to re-focus and tackle our work with a clearer head, resulting in productive work and a satisfying mental release!
Have a great study season and remember, try not to turn down the opportunity to have genuine conversations with people, especially when they spark naturally. That work is still going to be there in twenty minutes, but you might not get that level of genuine vulnerability from someone again if you reject it for something as permanent and dependable as a math question.
